opposites attract so the saying goes
when Melissa and I first met she was an
intensely jealous character and I was
someone who had made YouTube videos
talking about the extent to which I did
not experience jealousy it was always a
kind of oddity about me and it came out
in the workplace it came out in the
contrast from me and some of my blood
relations and the family that really
jealousy was something I understood kind
of philosophically and in the abstract
but I really did not feel and did not
experience neither in terms of romance
nor in terms of like owning expensive
things nor in terms of intellectual
conference I really didn't experience it
and Melissa partly due to nurture and
partly due to nature was really a
tremendously jealous character at the
time we first met when we first got
together you had one grandmother who is
famous within your own family for having
been unbelievably jealous intensely
jealous and it really tore her life
apart to some extent toward the whole
family's life apart so to give just one
anecdote she was such a jealous and
possessive character she would tear up
the Sears catalog she would tear up
catalogs and advertisements for clothes
that came to no any image of a woman of
any other woman like even if it's just
an advertisement for pajamas or whatever
she wouldn't let her husband see that no
I I got to correct you it was just it
was just the intimates the bras panties
oh okay so she went she went through and
tore out certain types of pajamas not
others okay so he was allowed to read
some pages the catalog that's the nurse
she I thought you told me she wouldn't
him watch TV right she didn't like
didn't allow TV in the household because
there were too many beautiful women on
TV but still that she wasn't a
selectively it wasn't just some channels
or something but any TV at all all right
so my point is whether it was genetic or
whether it's something that you know
resulted from Melissa's upbringing and
teenage years I don't think its genetic
I think it has to do with definitely
your environment and what you're showing
growing up that's your perspective
teacher we once met up with like two of
your aunts maybe one was an ottoman was
a cousin we met I'm Cinderella today
really said look this is some
in the family and they they they could
be wrong I'm not saying it's isn't but
but that was interesting that I meant
but at the same time you can say that
maybe it was due to like her upbringing
you know and then her son who's my uncle
you know he also has dealt with pretty
intense jealousy problems in his life
and it destroyed his first marriage no I
also I also don't know I've talked about
that you to what extent its nurture
versus nature of philosophy but like
let's say I've worked on Chinese for
five years I don't actually know how
long have it sent Chinese I'd really
have to sit and figure it out but when I
get to five years if I meet someone who
speaks Chinese way better than I do
after five years I don't feel jealousy
in the situations and sorry I've worked
on other languages like lotion and Thai
and so I really don't feel that way and
when I go to the gym and I see someone
who lifts more weight than me I don't in
any of these contexts I really don't
feel feel jealousy on the contrary I
often feel an awareness of like whoo
that guy worked really hard I don't want
to do the hard work that guy did or even
with money you know a lot of the time
you know III look ok say someone who's
become a lawyer or someone who's become
a surgeon I don't want to do that I
don't want to do those years in law
school I've thought about it you know I
mean like III tend to really have that
awareness but I don't know if that's you
know something I've really chosen if
it's a result of some philosophy or if
that's just who I am that I was gonna
born in this way of really not feeling
jealousy ok so let's hear this is so
this is the very end of 2019 this is
December 2019 and you were just
mentioning the last video we recorded
this was about 10 months ago wasn't
quite one full year ago it was a very
emotional video and that's yet to be
shared with the public as of today but
probably today we'll finally post that
publicly the last discussion we had and
Sarah's year so you really feel your
perspective when this has changed yeah
so last week you mentioned that we
hadn't published that video at that last
video so we went back and we listened to
it and it was pretty emotional for me
like looking back on it and you know you
asked if you could publish it and I said
what I would like to do is maybe publish
it but at this
time in the video that is published I
want my perspective now to maybe do like
a before and after
just like how I've worked through it and
during these ten months I've I've really
been struggling with acne so that is a
huge change and I've been separated from
you you know we were together 24 hours a
day for like two and a half years and
then I went back to live with my parents
in Michigan so I've been separated from
you for I don't know about six months
and now we're going to be continued I
just want to note the acne so right now
you're about three months into six
months of treatment for the acne with
accutane but the acne was a really
extreme transformation for you we talked
about this early in the relationship but
we talked about I don't even remember
the context that's come out but we used
to talk about the extent to which you
had pretty face privilege that you know
we were living in China and there were
kind of all these things being done for
her all these jobs being offered to her
just because she had a pretty face the
guys believe me that's not my
imagination really literally like
recruiters walking up to her on the
sidewalk and saying hey we want to hire
you just on the basis of her pretty face
you know so that was really an extreme
transformation because then living and
living in Taiwan with this extreme acne
because three months ago six months ago
the acne was really really extreme and
people reacted to you not even like you
were dying of cancer they reacted as if
you were dying at the plague like some
kind of plague they were afraid that gay
people were really really taken aback
which is different because like
Americans don't feel that way about acne
I think in your States and it's a person
with acne it's just not that big a deal
so that was definitely a different
transformation your perspective is so
long yeah yeah and it allowed me time to
myself like time to actually be
separated from you and during that time
you again dumped me so you know I had
the experience of being like really
alone and you know I am gonna get kind
of personal in this video but it's just
because it's my story and now I'm
actually more comfortable with it and I
want to share it you know because I
think it could help other people and I
think if I'm thinking about who the
audience is and if anybody else has seen
the videos prior they might want to know
like what the update is I think have I
learned
I mean won one of the titles for the
video that you had was the cure for
jealousy you know I kind of have I found
what the cure for jealousy is I'm
thinking the title of this video will be
after jealousy the recovery no that's
good
so yeah it's given me time to actually
be alone and realize that like you gotta
you gotta be comfortable with yourself
alone
um and you can't rely on other people
you know I I remember seeing some
comments on some of the videos that you
posted saying that like I had issues
with codependency and I don't you know I
don't know I mean this has given me time
dependency there's there's been
codependency and just dependency people
codependency means you rely on each
other
dependency is just one person yeah right
right so okay last week we watched the
video back that you want published and I
said okay I want to publish it but I
want to have me reflecting on it and
last night you know I was getting I got
fired up by watching a video of yours no
I was like inspired to to finally like
okay I'm gonna I want to share this I
want to talk about this but you were you
were sleepy you were about to go to
sleep so I was like okay I'm gonna I'm
gonna stay up and I'll write this down
so you know I have this all written down
but you know I think I can yeah yeah so
um you know what's really sad for me to
look at that video partly because it was
seeing how hopeless and how sad I was
and how I felt like completely lost at
that time just unable to like like it
was a problem I felt I couldn't solve
and that was always going to nag at me
like for the rest of my life like you
know I just felt like this is you know
something I couldn't conquer this is
jealousy a problem that I had and it was
overwhelming to me and I could see just
you know how sad I was and how that was
affecting you and I remember from many
many experiences with you where I was
just overwhelmed by emotion how much
that affected you and so when I watched
the video back last week and you know I
just got really sad
thinking about how I how I ended things
so wrong in this relationship and like
me being separated from you in these
past few months there passed like six
months really has made me reflect and be
like wow you know I I really missed my
chance or you know really dropped the
ball in so many situations so um yeah
I'm gonna talk about I'm gonna talk
about some some real stuff here it's
gonna be real stuff about my life but I
think it's worth sharing so you sure
anecdotes with me about people from your
past you know friends that you've had in
the past and I think a phrase that gets
repeated and I find is a common common
theme of what you tell me about people
you say um you could tell like when he
was talking to me that he was [ __ ] up
about it you know this is just like
something that you say like that's a
that's a phrase of yours so when I think
about that in my experience you aren't
somebody who really does small talk
you're not somebody that if you have a
conversation with them it won't be it'll
be something that you'll forget right I
think everybody is going to remember
conversations that they have with you
because they're very memorable right you
don't just talk about surface things you
tend to talk about tough topics that are
deep topics that are maybe touchy like
some touchy subjects that people aren't
comfortable talking about like in terms
of what's socially acceptable and I like
I love that about you you know I think
that's that's a wonderful aspect of your
character that you're you're not
somebody you're you're a real person you
know you want to deal with real things
and and I just think it will lead
inevitably to if people get to know you
on a deeper level that they're going to
reveal to you what their insecurities
are because at some point like there's
going to be a touchy subject that comes
up and they're gonna be like you know
react in certain ways so you've shared
various anecdotes with me where people
were like you know you said that they've
reacted in a certain way because they're
sensitive about one topic so um yeah I
mean it was sad watching this back and
seeing how [ __ ] up I was about
jealousy and how much this had
devastated not only you you know but
like me just and I'm
and it really was a problem for me and
it was a problem for you together for us
as a couple and it really led to a lot
of problems in the relationship so um
you know the topic of jealousy you know
I used to be like really messed up about
talking about it but I think this is
something that like I am comfortable
talking about now because I'm able to
say like I've thought about it and I've
come to maybe what I think is the cure
for at least my own form of jealousy and
like my own issues like in this
relationship so in this conversation
that we had a couple days ago I was
saying that when you get into a
relationship with somebody you find that
the person that you're with has had
their share of experiences in life and
they have their own kind of formulation
of how to treat the other person and
what I said to you is I think everybody
is operating under different definitions
of what love is so as children as we
developed we kind of see different
examples of love we see love between
parents and children if we're lucky
enough we get to see a functional
relationship with our own parents we see
a husband and wife they're functional
but unfortunately I think a lot of us
are not fortunate enough to see a
functional healthy loving mutually
caring and respectful relationship when
we're growing up
so in these fundamental years I think a
lot of us don't actually get that input
and we see what the relationship is with
our parents as some kind of maybe
something to avoid or something to
idealize depending on you know how
you're brought up and another thing is
definitely in our modern modern age has
to do with movies and TV the inputs that
we get from books that we read romance
novels definitely impacts what we think
about what is normal romantic
relationship what's a normal normal
loving supportive relationship so
unfortunately the way that we love
and what we grow up with is different
for everybody so to get more personal I
grew up in a conservative Christian
household I grew up with the ideal the
ideal is that you will fall in love
marry and sleep with one person the rest
of your life
right like that is what I was told
growing up is the ideal and looking back
you know I I always kind of thought that
it was not reasonable to expect somebody
to do that but that was what I thought
was idealized like that was that that
was the goal if I could but everybody's
operating by different definitions so
you know maybe I grew up in a
conservative Christian household but
other people didn't and maybe I don't
even want to grow up with what's what I
was shown but still you know that is a
factor to consider so human beings one
thing that I that I've really gathered
from watching your YouTube channel and I
think this has had effects on a lot of
people that watch your channel who may
have come from religious backgrounds is
that human beings are not angels in
human skin right human beings are
animals and in particular we are mammals
and you know animals have many different
motivations but typically it's the
basics our food shelter water and
reproduction right mating and
reproduction that's like the biggest
thing so you know millions of years of
evolution have led to human beings as
they are today they are animals who also
have an incredibly strong drive to
reproduce and you know when you think
about like all the other animals in the
animal kingdom right how many of them
only mate with one other animal there
are some saying cuz yeah it is so simple
it's easy to go pass by mean you've said
to me recently also so I mean you know
you grew up in a household where you
were told not to believe in the theory
of evolution you know and again it's
something it's simple but it's very
fundamental and it
very far-reaching consequences like you
know do you think of yourself as an
angel trapped in human skin or you know
or do you think of yourself as a kind of
bipedal monkey that made up these myths
and legends about angels Cimino uh it is
a very and then the other thing you've
mentioned to me a lot lately in
different contexts is the difference you
feel you know people would have no lies
but including members your own family if
they could give up the notion that you
suffer in this life and then you're
happy you know in an afterlife in a
reincarnation in heaven and some that
happens after you die did you say on
this very simple very broad level these
are not the details of church doctrine
but these broad outlines you've just say
lately and a lot of different conduct
she has been remarkable view is you know
even though I think you broke away from
Christianity many many years ago but
still the implications of that are
something that shapes your life you know
that so you know there's one thing it's
really just understanding yourself as a
biological creature simple but it put
deep and goes a long way and then
there's also a question of what are you
gonna do with this life when you do
really appreciate that it is your only
life to work with that's right yeah when
you're looking at your life in that way
you have one life to live and only a
certain number of years where you're
really able to like yep have sexual
experiences right oh yes a certain
number reason which you could walk no
but no but that's no but that's true I
mean actually the number of years nobody
number of years that you can walk is
larger than the number of you know
seculars Marisa no no that's that's
really true you know what sir just real
briefly I have one of my half-brothers I
have a million brothers but I remember
one of my half-brothers wants you know
he was one of the differences between us
was uh he was afraid of growing old and
now was it what do you mean like I'm
really looking forward to being 70 years
old because the stuff I cared about
doing you know that's when you're in
your prime in a lot of ways when you're
in your 70s but yeah obviously if your
life if your life revolves around sex
that particular brother of mine it
really does it's that kind of guy then
sure right no it's a much you're right
you're right so much much more time for
you yeah yeah especially you know if
you're a woman and you
have a child even if you're a man I used
to think of myself as a scholar of
Buddhism okay so cuz I was studying
Palli and Sri Lankan and you know
Burmese and so on doctor I was worried
that I thought of myself being seventy
years old and being devoted to that area
of philosophy and scholarship different
view of life but yeah yeah no but me for
women it's a very short number of years
but look for men to I know I know how
differently women look at me now at a
gym now that I'm above 40 as opposed to
how they looked at me when I was in my
20s in my thirties I know so even for
men it's it's more limited to people
right oh yeah so yeah human beings are
genetically programmed to be attracted
to more than just one person I think it
is really unreasonable to expect any
partner to not be attracted to another
person and to not be honest with the
other partner when they are attracted to
somebody else like if they want to talk
about it you know but that's what
monogamy is all about it's all about you
know lying to the other partner it's all
about saying like no you're the most
beautiful like oh no she don't worry
about her you know no this is her
specific background right no I I found
that very surprising about you that you
and your your prior relationship with
your ex-boyfriend
that right it was old but he was at that
first he was about refusing to admit
that you were even attracted to other
people that that was yeah because for
some couples the attraction doesn't
matter was just whether or not she
actually sleep with them right so you
know what that being said when I was
young like what the influences was going
to church every Sunday with the
influences of having a mother who
encouraged me to wait until marriage to
have sex I kind of thought like the idea
of waiting till marriage was the
pinnacle of morality like some ideal
that's somehow chastity you know like
chase that that idea of like purity was
kind of ingrained into my mind so that
definition of love relies on denying
exactly what we want as human beings
which is connection especially like
intimate connections with the opposite
sex I mean okay there are there are
exceptions there are people
or not attractive the opposite sex but
like you know on Anna primitive
primitive on a primitive like
instinctual even like telepathic basis
like sometimes it's just a look that
like it's transferred between people
you're denying that when you're in a
strictly monogamous relationship you're
denying yourself that constantly and
it's in some ways it's kind of like a
like self flagellation like if you if
you are attracted to somebody else you
have to be like no and deny that and
repress it and it's all about repression
and just it's not healthy right but at
the same time that was what I was kind
of programmed to to think was was right
so um yeah I mean yeah so right like
when you have a monogamous relationship
this is this monumental task of trying
to remain happy and like convincing
yourself that this is the only person
that I could ever have like sexual
relations with like this is the only
person that I could actually be intimate
with and I have to somehow be happy with
that you know for the rest of my life
you know it's not like you know it's not
just though for like ten years or
something no it's like forever that is
what the ideal is um in you know
Christian society so um you know keeping
it all the way real this was the
situation I was when I met my first
boyfriend when I was 17 I was with him
for six years and this included all of
the years that I was in university these
are years which typically you can have
new sexual experiences and you begin to
form your sexual identity and during
that time I only had sex with one person
and you know that person had a
definition of love and that was the only
definition that I had been exposed to
like I said he was my first boyfriend
and he was like my only experience with
love and my only experience with what it
meant to be loving towards someone and
what what it actually means to be a
partner that you know every day your
interactions with them what is it what
does it actually feel like and what is
the experience that you have with them
so I didn't know it then but you know
his definition of love and what
I was exposed to and you know of course
17 you're impressionable and you're
you're vulnerable to somebody that loves
you and you know you're getting all this
attention from somebody and you just go
along with with what you're shown at
least I do you know that's my character
you know it's just generally my
character that I tend to you know at
that time that was my character so um
you know that person's definition of
love was very possessive and I didn't
realize it at the time but you know it
was very kind of jealous and emotionally
manipulative and in ways that that I
just wasn't able to recognize and that
was my only experience with love so once
I got involved with you I also just
pause and say you were very unhappy in
that relationship I assume not
immediately like I see not in the first
month but whatever but soon enough you
really weren't happy in the relationship
and one of the main ways you respond to
that was by medicating the condition you
know you you started smoking marijuana a
your ex-boyfriend smoked marijuana and
then it became everyday smoking
marijuana see significant treatment and
then you also started on antidepressants
right so I just maybe this is the most
obvious mystery or riddle in Western
civilization today if you have a problem
do you want to actually solve the
problem or do you want to sedate
yourself so that you tolerate the
problem or ignore that where you
perpetuate the problem but I mean you
were you were an example of someone
doing that also
yeah and again yeah I think so I think
so and I think your boyfriend I wouldn't
even call him manipulative about that
that was kind of the deal that was like
the contract for the relationship II
presented to you was that you needed to
be on a theatre presence and marijuana
so that so she seemed well tolerated a
relationship that you you were missing
one yeah yeah yeah yeah it was messed up
and I like didn't I am who was really
messed up and you know so getting back
to just like the idea of jealousy though
like you know in that relationship
it becomes increasingly clear after my
having been with with you somebody who's
not possessive somebody who's not
jealous and somebody who doesn't want to
be like um controlling who I interact
with when I interact with and asking all
the time like you know great because he
was really you know made me feel guilty
for even spending when talk about guys
with other boys and university like you
know when when that's a time when you're
supposed to be like meeting new people
and and just making new friends and
stuff like it was it was hard for me to
spend time with other boys that I like I
mean maybe not even like romantically
just that I wanted to spend time with so
I think though it's just posing once
again because the word possessive is a
bit vague like part of my attitude is I
don't want to force someone to be in a
relation with me if they don't want to
be like it's to meet like sorry it's
it's really simple but it's really
obvious like you know you're not happy
[ __ ] I don't need you like you know you
met someone you like better than me go
[ __ ] up his [ __ ] instead of mine like I
feel like good you know but I mean you
know the reality is you're you're very
much in love with me you're very happy
with me and that's why you're with me so
why would I try to police you or control
you or coerce you and like vice-versa if
the problem is that you're not motivated
to be with me you're not happy with me
give a simple example so we're both
studying Chinese now if she hates
studying Chinese and she really doesn't
want to be studying Chinese like let's
say she really wanted to study Greek or
Italian or something okay for one thing
probably in this relationship I would
probably be very supportive and loving
in that case but you know whatever it is
if there's something in the way she
could be something as obvious as that
that you're miserable about where you
want to be you don't want to be with me
wanna be the source that you know to me
it's really a fundamental like logical
error to think that my role is to kind
of trap you and coerce you or try to
keep you in the relationship as opposed
to addressing what it is that you're
actually happy about or just accepting
you know look you know that this girl
doesn't like you or she like you for
some reason before and doesn't like you
now for what for whatever reason it is
dealing with the reality of that rather
than trying to kind of you know restrict
the
person's behavior given what their
choice would be you know so yeah I just
say that I think that's a very different
attitude which doesn't doesn't have to
do with jealousy directly but about
possessiveness and possession and
controlling someone as opposed to yeah
as opposed to the deep assumption that
if someone's in a relationship with you
it's because they they chose you and
they choose you every day and they want
to be with you they want to spend that
down with you and you know and really
want it now I want to be with someone
who's highly motivated but I don't want
to be with somebody's dragging their
feet barely putting up with it you know
so yeah yeah yeah and you know I mean
that's the contrast to your own early
relationship and look guys I mean I'm
not I'm not boasting about this remember
I mean you know that's also why
sometimes for a couple years in a row
I'm alone first couple years in this
youtube channel you know I'd have a
girlfriend but you know again I wasn't
looking for someone he would just verily
grudgingly put up with me or something
so you know yeah there are a lot of
thing a lot of assumptions building 17
to 24 right yeah I guess it was born 18
to 24 um yeah so during those six years
that was what I was exposed to that was
what love was um and you know the rules
that we played by were you know if he
caught me or if you knew found out that
I was cheating on him
you know he would dump me and never
speak to me again anyway two birds with
one stone he was he was unprovoked you
know like I mean I we weren't talking
about it but he would say you know like
you know it would it would just destroy
me any like you know if you if you were
with anybody else before I found found
you with somebody else on and he'd say
basically he did all the kind of
hackneyed playbook including threats of
suicide and threats of violence and what
I know I've got nothing in my life but
you know if you ever leave me it said oh
right right right and of course you know
that makes me feel like wow you know
like this guy really needs me this guy
really needs my love and attention like
you know I I want like I like I
genuinely feel like
like I do want to help people in life
and stuff so like you know that
definitely played into what what I you
know felt like was the right thing to do
and basically you know looking back on
it he just wanted me all to himself
so sorry I mean like I don't like
talking bad about about past
relationships you know but like it does
play a play into all this discussion
about jealousy because that was what I
was shown was love like this possessive
like you are mine
you know like keeping someone as like we
were talking about the other day like
keeping him off in some kind of glass
case to be looked at but don't touch you
know that was that was kind of how it
was so but it has to be said to some of
the manipulative tactics she's
complaining about with her ex-boyfriend
and some of the disputed you then tried
to use on me and really extreme to not
sort of like screaming at me weeping at
really these tactics were used like
really in my face so just mentioning I
think you're a stop topic of this video
but it is true some of the same tactics
your ex-boyfriend did to you you did in
the fullness of time try to use I I
think I wasn't so easy to manipulate but
yeah right but you tried yeah was really
jarring like I gotta say like you know I
love it now but like you know was really
jarring to be with somebody that was
like you know like I came home from
China after the first time that I
visited him he was like you know you
could still turn me in you can still
return me like like this in a video
you're like well if you don't want to be
with me like it's cool well no no no no
that's that that's that's important look
it's for me like early in the
relationship so before we met I said to
a really clear look if you're with me
you feel uncomfortable there's this
hotel nearby like you don't have to stay
you know you can go and check in this
way so there was like a no no no but I
thought I felt that was really important
to make it clear that it was it was her
choice and stuff and not not just that
you're forgetting I thought you weren't
gonna mention I thought well you were
gonna mention was when you went back to
America I also gave you the option look
you can wait and see me six months
now like you know you don't have seen
Megan right but you can take you know I
mean you can think it over and decide
and maybe I'm not such a big deal I
really reminded her of those options
like look you know it's it's up to you
no no that W that was sincere that was
meant to be no but that was complete of
it's like oh yeah and I remember saying
to you at that time I think you were
shark you might remember I said you look
you could date other guys like it's like
it's fine with me like jury no but like
if you state like you know okay look if
you want to stay in America no because I
think that's something really important
to say to someone it's not I'm not
giving you some ultimatum like either
you sell your soul to me or it's over
like I've you I've you commit with my
you know demands or what like knows look
you know this is a big step think it
over don't rush into it if you if you
want more time or if you want to date
other people whatever you know I felt
that's that's what I thought was kind of
the responsible thing to do you know I
love that I think that's the right way
to treat relationships you should want
to be with somebody just because you
want to spend time together you know
like they would like being with the
person and that's what's gonna keep you
together like if there's something
deeper and more profound that's great
too well look but you know keeping all
the way real right minutes it's both
it's it's self confidence but it's not
reckless or ridiculous self confidence
like I knew you know the sex was really
good I mean there were a lot of things I
know we're really sexually compatible I
knew there were a lot of things you
liked about me and whatever you know
what it's not it's not like I'm so meek
and lacking in self-confidence but the
point is the morning look I'm so
confident this is what I have to offer
you you know the good and the bad of it
but then on the other hand if you don't
want it if you decide it's not for you
fine that's good too but you sure you
were in a type of medical program you
and she she didn't want to continue with
it not gonna get another deal yeah yeah
study on stuck yeah sorry Medical right
she was she was studying a medical topic
at university and she didn't really want
it but that was another thing was like
look if you want to go continue that
university like I respect that you know
what I mean like it's not I would never
say to you like no you have to drop out
of school for me you know by the way
that's been done to me I'm talking about
past relationship or am for me this kind
of thing yeah
no no it doesn't really something like
looking back on I'm like oh my god
you're right like I did like repeat
these things it was like yeah cuz that's
what I thought
what like a relationship was and and I
remember um it was toward the end of the
first two weeks that we were together we
were walking in a grocery store buying
groceries and you made some comment like
basically it was the first time that you
brought up us having an open
relationship
right and my brain just like
short-circuited like I could not imagine
that that was the future for me for
eyes'll and I was like you know I I
don't need to get into the details but
you know like it was a truly hilarious
scene in the bulk department at a toy
store the ad that the bins full of beans
and rice and stuff and you know it was
because you were like you know you've
mostly you've only been with with too
much you know me and right you know
you're your ex-boyfriend like you know
this is I'm don't you have an interest
in being less like any other person you
know for the rest of your life I
remember you said that we were going
this this is right so this is this is
part of my perspective on it I'm much
older than Melissa I'm 14 years old in
her and so she had only ever slept with
two men her ex-boyfriend and me so again
I didn't know she was good job doesn't
available you know so that's why I've
mentioned earlier but no no it's great
it's great no I think it's good for the
but part of my attitude was look if you
say you're in love with me and you want
to be with me for the rest of your life
then that really does mean necessarily
that it should be an open relationship
because otherwise it would mean your
whole life you don't they ever slept
with you people right and that's not
fair that's not reasonable by the way
I'm not saying everyone should sleep
with a hundred people or a thousand
people but just one or two this this is
a very low numeral you know and I mean
it's like so you know that was part of
my attitude then and I think it's still
part of my attitude now and it's
something I'd say to everyone in the
audience I mean whether you have kind of
an age gap or not but especially if
you're the older and more mature party
you should be able to look at the
situation say look this person just
hasn't had that much experience so if
they're really in love with me if they
want to be with me forever
then it's not reasonable for me to say
I should be the only person you said you
know and the other argument by the way
the only other argument thing is if a
road of total monogamy is laziness I
mean it's great if you're a it's a lot
less work to only sleep with one person
I guess with your ex with your first
work you know you know so while he was
with you you know he just freaked out oh
yeah okay it's true I mean like if
you're in a monogamous monogamous
relationship and say you know some
people is really completely over if I
catch you with anybody else you know
it's then so then within that framework
it justified him living a totally
self-indulgent lazy lazy lifestyle
otherwise cuz he yeah and when I when I
want to express interest in going to the
gym you know like I wanted to I wasn't
even interested in like gaining gaining
muscle at the time but you know um just
because healthy dude was just losing
weight yeah you know he just shut down
and couldn't know he was like you know
no why do you want him get me to the gym
you know like so yeah you know I think
that this is not that unusual sadly you
know maybe maybe not this particular
situation is on health was more
unhealthy than the average but I think
like the typical
definition of monogamy that is practiced
in America that is pretty typical like
okay well if you find your partner's
cheating on somebody else basically the
relationship is over
you know the trust is great ruined and
that's that and I think that's that's
pretty typical so I mean I think it is
important to say like yes it is lazy but
it's also like if you if you don't want
that it is really a lot of agony so I
was thinking like actually wrote this
now is like the agony of monogamy is
that you're denying you're like in a
constant state of denying your basic
instincts is you know somebody you know
and so what I say is yeah like from my
personal experience it's not even like
intentional like when I'd find myself
attracted to somebody else right and
it's like you can't so it's it's an
instinct like fear
right so like it can happen and just
like sometimes it surprises me if I'm
like walking on the street it's
unexpected you see somebody and you're
like wow you know like that person's you
know just not even a thought you know
like like like literally I can't even
put like words to it's just like you
know something that happens when you're
attracted to someone and maybe not even
how they look but like when you hear
somebody talking like how they express
themselves even how they write like I've
been you know I in real life a good
percentage of women are attracting me
when they hear my voice yeah I know this
very well and you see the shift you see
the shift we're so the one she looks at
you differently after your voice yeah
yeah I think you freaked out over my
handwriting I've come for that too oh
yeah I think jokes my handwriting in
several languages to whatever God yeah
yeah yeah but yeah also even if you read
some like even if you don't even know
what somebody looks like sometimes if
you read what they write yes that's
happen to me a few times yeah wow this
person is like really wonderful really
amazing you get this kind of yeah yep so
like you know if I spend some times with
someone else like in this relationship
you know if I spend time someone else
with someone else and we hit it off or
whatever like if we decide to like move
towards something more intimate like
okay like will we have even have good
sex like you don't know like this will
you remain good friends like will you
remain like we're wanting to talk you
know we even have a relationship will
the friendship lasts or something no no
no right right and to use a phrase I
used in the street if you know a long
time ago you know get disappointed get
your heart broken
get up get your heart broken again you
know that that resolution yeah yeah
there's a but it's a lot less
heartbreaking if you have a stable
relationship with your primary partner
when you're meeting new people right but
this is a fundamental that was kind of
the situation I was in like when I was
in college you know like yeah there were
there were people that I like spending
time was that like you know yeah I
probably would have wanted to like
engage in something more intimate but
because I was in this other relationship
I couldn't you know you know I have a
lot of regrets about that that I
isn't able to pursue that that I wasn't
able to have those connections and like
and these other people in college were
more intellectually stimulating than
your boyfriend also not a university and
like you know he wasn't reading books he
wasn't you know so you know that that
would have meant if I would have done
that it would have severed this
relationship you know that I you know of
course I had grown attached and this is
the source of you know love and source
of attention and of course you know
everyone has selfish needs selfish
desires thank for attention and that's
that's where I was getting it so um you
know isn't the so what I wrote is isn't
the more mature reasonable stance to be
understanding and allow your partner to
seek out these other experiences if they
are possible so have you been yet
remember okay so when we got together
most as 24 years old she's now 27 all
right I have a friend who we're not
gonna name I have a female friend if
we're not gonna name who started
discovering this stuff after she was
already married with two kids all right
and it's different I mean you know and
again she so I'm divorced or separated
and still legally and divorced quagmire
you know I still have legal paperwork to
do with my ex-wife she'll go on for
another two or three years at least we
predict going on forever but
nevertheless you know if that's not
something it's a universally if you're
55 years old with grandkids I think it's
different no I really do I mean oh you
just you have to be honest sophinarose
so most was 24 she's now 27 and we have
no kids you know it's different yeah I
got sympathy for the other people I do
you know that friend of mine who was
already married with two kids and one of
the breaking points for her was that you
know her husband the guy she'd married
he was apparently just incapable of
giving her an orgasm I don't know I mean
I you know what when people talk to this
I don't pry I don't know if that meant
she had absolutely never I'd want one
every couple of months ISM but you know
the sex was really bad and she really
hit a breaking point she was like no I
can't stick with this marriage okay
be monogamous anymore and you know she
went on try the things so I know
different stories from different
people's perspectives and they have
different consequences so this isn't
something that's Universal or easily
said to all people in all situations and
yeah you know I mean there are people
who there are people who reconsider you
know too late and that you know I just
say that's that's a very sad very
different story
but obviously and you're I mean again if
I had been a complete [ __ ] that you
know then then you could have been one
of the people who figure so it's you
late you know what I mean like you could
have been one of the people who looks
back and starts reconsidering these
basic assumptions that you had from your
childhood your teenage years when you
were 55 or when you had two kids or
whatever it is so that's it's a footnote
but really it's a pretty crucial
footnote here yeah and by the way I'm
self-critical that way too I'm above 40
I'm more than 40 years old now I think
the situation applies to me differently
too you know and obviously I was in an
open relationship before this one
basically all the major relationships in
my life were broken relationships any of
them that lasted long enough for let's
say you know but you know for sure I
mean yeah I mean that's all age and
other responsibilities those things
really delimit how you can apply this
this advice everywhere yeah yeah and
there's also undertones about like the
number of sexual partners like yeah it
makes you a slot if you might get a
certain number you know and that
definitely got into my mind when I was
younger but see I remember the earlier
conversation with it but cuz even if you
accept that like if there's some noise
at 5:00 like you know that's the thing I
know no I know I know I know but like
but my point is like even if you're
talking about that with people who
really do feel that way like okay you
know what what if 1,000 is too much you
know okay so maybe 1000 how about 500
okay but how about 50 but how about five
even if you do have that idea and you
know like I think again I've met some
men who had enormous numbers of sexual
partners and I think it can screw up
your life I think when you're talking
about more than 500 or something you
know I mean maybe there are some
questions get asked here you know about
can
yeah I I actually don't think it's an
infinitely flexible ruler but then you
but then your challenge is a much more
interesting question which is ok but why
is the number one because that's really
[ __ ] up one doesn't work right then as
soon as you accept as soon as you're
willing to question the number one then
you're gonna question the number to your
question number three and the number
four so that's again I'm seeing this bro
because I know like whatever you have a
meaningful like one like you said like
one relationship where it can't be
monogamous anymore cuz it's a terrible
right and you can you can have a
relationship that's totally just
satisfactory sexually we can also have
relationship that's dissatisfactory
intellectually and you can have both it
could be double just one but again I
don't think there's any argument that
human that you know basically all the
human being should only have one or two
sexual partners in their life if you
feel 50 is too many stop at ten you know
stop it whatever I mean you know it's up
to you it's totally fine sexual amedeo
sexual liberation sexual freedom doesn't
mean you're under a compulsion to have
sex with a thousand people that's also
ridiculous but that's really a kind of
strong man argument so you just say I
think there's actually a moderate
response to that and as you know a lot
of people on the left wing instead want
to say like Oh sex has absolutely
absolutely no stigma well no there is
stigma I mean there is stigma we've made
other videos talking with us because
you're judged by your personal conduct
and who you sleep with reflects on you
and who you are and the meaningfulness
of your relationships does know I mean
there's a if you literally slept with
every single person in your high school
there's a reason why that has a stigma
you know if you slept with every single
person your class there's a reason why
that does but still even so even if you
concede that point then there's still
this meaningful challenge of how to live
in I have I'd have a reasonable number
of partners or relationships experiences
I've know I've already I know I've
already said this in this video but like
it really is fundamentally about like
denying your desire to have intimate
relationships relationships with
somebody else so like I just think so
much of our lives are meaningless just
drudgery
you know um so few positive experiences
so much suffering like so little joy
that can be
head right in one day and sex doesn't
take that long I mean like it's you know
it's like it's an enjoyable experience
and I'm not you know there's it's a
measured thing and I'm not trying to say
like you know like you said I mean don't
sleep with everybody in your high school
shop like that right but um you know why
fundamentally like deny yourself that
and in like I say it's kind of like you
know just denying yourself the enjoyment
that you could be having if you weren't
with some was somebody who was
preventing you from from you know
pursuing that if you wanted to what look
I totally the civilian news go on the
channel but I have I should make a new
video because Adam down talked about it
for several years but the other thing is
I personally don't think that
intellectual relationships and sexual
relationships are really two separate
things we know I mean I think right but
I mean like right but my point is even
if you sleep with someone who's quite
stupid still you're gonna be sharing
your life with and sharing your thoughts
with and sharing your feelings with that
person there's gonna be some kind of a
logic exchange it just to mention
someone who might not be conventionally
brilliant they may have experiences life
they may have a perspective month they
may really have things to share with you
that are meaningful to you also so you
know I just say it's not like everyone
has to be a research scientist but I
don't I don't think those things are
separable I would actually go so far as
to say I think the belief that sex can
be just and only sex is itself a fantasy
you know and people people act out that
fans and people pay money to have that
fantasy but like you can't really
separate sex from the reproductive urges
and the social urges and the you know
intellectual and emotional side of life
you can try but I say don't try you know
just admit to yourself that these are
meaningful relationships you know that
people it's real quick a better example
than sleeping with everyone in your high
school so back when I was yet much
younger and much more handsome I used to
work at a Starbucks at least three of my
female co-workers wanted to sleep with
me maybe four you know we could ask her
we asked the fourth so you know now and
I refused all of them now if I'd slept
with all four that would have been
pretty [ __ ] up my daily life you
obviously I mean if it's up with just
once and I would have been hated and I
would have been regarded as a bad person
I'm like let's just be real here you
know my situation at work you know be
like if you saw no it's ridiculous that
you slept with everyone in your high
school or something but you know you I
know what would have been perceived
really negatively on the other hand you
know of course like you just said I can
look back now I mean you know some of
those girls some of them came from a
really hard knock life I mean you know I
remember one of them was a high school
dropout you know just so again not a lot
of conventional book-learning had a
tough life beautiful gorgeous young
woman by the way but you know she came
out of a really and I'm sorry I want to
say anything from here she came out of a
really interesting bear nail looking
back it's like wow that would have been
someone really meaningful for me to get
to know better even though you know I
was all about book-learning and she
wasn't at all
you know I knowing knowing different
stuff about her and things so you know I
just say it's easy for me and my 40s to
look back and see that there was really
a positive opportunity there for
something other than just sex but then
it sure on the other hand there's the
danger that you're perceived as a bad
person or indeed that you actually
become a bad person if you're actually
lying to and manipulating like all for
your female co-workers or something you
know sure it'll have it'll have a
corrosive effect on your work life and
maybe on your character you know what as
a human being like in lieu of this
conversation about like this is the one
life you have there's no afterlife right
like the wonderful thing about life is
that you get to have learning
experiences and you get to have you get
to know people on a level that you can
yes you know that's this is one of the
best things about life like you know
like actually having connections with
people and getting to know them and
really like having a long-lasting
relationship where you you keep up with
each other you know like what are you
doing your life you know it's so
valuable and so meaningful and also even
some of those girls I used to work with
at Starbucks I kind of do wish I needed
again and what they what they went on to
and in their life after that but but but
the [ __ ] up thing is I don't think any
of them would have been friends
me if I didn't sleep that's that's also
one of the ironies of life is you know
there was no possibility there of being
you know for whatever whatever their
shallow what who knows why you know for
whatever reason yeah but something else
that came up a conversation the other
day and what you were just saying
earlier you were saying that like it's
people have this fantasy that sex can be
just sex whereas like I think it's the
popularity of drugs and alcohol yes club
culture is really about trying to
separate sex from meaningful
relationships yeah and it's really hard
to forget
even a face you know you've mentioned to
me that like you might you you remember
the faces that you've seen just like of
women that you saw on the street who
flirted with me or something with some
brief interaction you know it's like
somehow like very beautiful you know and
and I can relate like I remember like
just certain people that I've seen and
you know not even talked to you or like
barely had interactions with just
because it was that connection that like
you know something in the eyes that
happens when you when you see somebody
you know the popularity of drugs and
alcohol is to try to like forget that
you know forget that connection or maybe
even like with having sexual
interactions turn yourself into an
automaton you know yeah take away take
away the sense of personal
responsibility and depth and
what-have-you to reduce sex to just sex
right something wonderful but even if
it's not like a long-term thing it could
just be something so interesting and
I've fun like like just again this is
reminding me of this is a read new stuff
I should make a new video on cuz I said
this like four years ago or something
but again compare it to skiing like even
if it's not that profound or that
meaningful these kinds of relationships
they're gonna be way more meaningful
than than going skiing going on a
downhill skiing vacation so yeah no I
agree and of course is the possibility
you know you you let someone in your
life you get involved them and it's
whatever they're they're stupider than
you thought they were gonna be here they
were bad in bed or both or sure still
more meaningful than skiing still my
opinion oh yeah and then you then you
gone through that experience I used I
used to get email from people saying why
do you hate downhill skiing yeah then
you'd actually know what you're missing
out on if you if you yeah look I just
say I mean honestly you know if I had if
I had a love affair with a woman who ran
a pancake restaurant or something like
I'm really not saying like the only
meaningful experience is to share or
being a research scientist or getting a
PhD or something people also they bring
to you you know they're things they've
learned you know from from whatever is
that yeah so getting back on this topic
of like jealousy and how it affected my
relationships like you know when I was
thinking about this people leave their
partners all the time even if they
aren't even cheating on their spouses
like you know it doesn't have to be
something like sexual in nature that
like causes people to split up and true
love is really not like trying to keep
somebody as a pet trying to keep them as
like your plaything like your toy right
true love is not trying to capture them
off and you know put it in put it in a
case you know a glass case where people
who look at that's that's just to me not
what love should be but that was that's
very different than the definition of
love that I was shown so you know when
I'm thinking about this what is the cure
for jealousy part of the some simple
answer is is you know love actually
being loving towards someone actually
like caring about the other person and
wanting what's best for the other person
and not trying to have forgetting the
the selfish desires of your self you
know the selfish desires that you have
and actually wanting good things for the
partner and actually genuinely being
happy for your partner and wanting them
to have these experiences that they want
to have you know meaningful experiences
in their life so that's what I was
struggling with for so long I think it
really had to do with selfishness
self-indulgence and my own feelings of
no agonizing about this this not being
able to get over this idea of of you may
be finding joy in somebody else and it's
it was really about like wanting you all
to myself you know like I love your
attention it's like the best thing in
the world spending time with you really
it to me like you're you're such a joy
to be around
I know like I mean of course everybody I
love it ups and downs you know like
everybody has their moods and you could
not be but like you are very like fun to
be around and it's kind of not what I
expected when you know from seeing your
YouTube videos but like you know you are
really fun to be around and like things
little things that you do or just you
know me and everything to me and I love
spending time with you so it was hard
for me to be like you know I want you
all to myself
and this is not really what love is it's
really they're just like my selfish
desires for wanting you all to myself so
like that's what I think was really the
problem and you know me being separated
from you for these six months where I've
only gotten to seeing you for you for a
short amount of time it's made me
reflect on that and see that that's you
know spending a solid month together
right now wasn't really six months
continuously because even the other day
like I started feeling like real weepy I
was like oh I'm gonna leave you in a
couple days in like oh my gosh I'm not
gonna see you for I don't know how long
and you know like um it was really just
selfish of me it was like oh I'm gonna
be alone and like Oh sad and stuff it's
like you know if you actually like
yourself if you actually like spending
time with yourself and you know if you
have me alone like it's it's actually
can be fun to be alone if you have
meaningful things in your life if you
study if you write if you just have like
you you know working out is also like
you know it's something solitary
activity yeah when you're alone or like
going for walks and stuff they're a nice
thing is about being alone you know
but it was my first real period of being
alone I guess just to be honest like I
mean because I was in this relationship
when I was like you know 18 to 24 and in
that relationship I was hardly ever
alone at least there was always at least
a stream of text messages saying you
know I miss you I love you baby you know
like all this stuff so actually being
alone and realizing like you know you
have to be okay with yourself you have
to respect yourself and and and love
being around yourself and then that's
how you can be a good partner to
somebody is not wanting to like keep
them all to yourself you're like rely on
them for like and for your entertainment
or like your your intellectual
stimulation you know I mean that was
that's a great that's a wonderful thing
about you you're always like you know
talking about all so many different
topics and it's very intellectually
stimulating but you know you got to be
able to do that for yourself and I love
that I've been with you and I love that
I've had the experiences with you that
I've had because I really feel like
you've taught me how to love and you've
taught me what love is and in ways that
I never could have known had I not been
here so it's really meaningful
after having you know seen that sad
video where I was so like you know lost
in despair and like oh it'll never be
enough like you know all this time with
you and you know yeah you can't you
can't depend on somebody else for your
own your your own you know just solve
for lying itself I don't know your
equanimity maybe you yeah they're on a
word yeah I guess you know I just the
other day when I was getting all weepy
about it is like you know oh god I get I
got lost in this pit of despair and
depression when we get so we got
separated the last time and like you
know it's just fraught with all kinds of
difficulties so you know but so I think
I said this to you the other day but I
really mean it you know aisel you know
in response to that video where I said
like you know oh I don't want you to
leave me like oh you're gonna find
somebody else like no I really genuinely
feel
like if you decide to leave me like I
will want happiness for you because I
really love you and I really just want
you to have a meaningful life and have a
good experience in your life and that's
what I would want from you you know I
wouldn't want you to turn around and be
like no I like I want revenge or
something why it makes no sense right I
would want you to be happy for me and
keep in touch with me and like actually
care for me and that to me is is what
true love is like deciding to that you
know what you have is durable enough to
the connection that you have is strong
enough and meaningful enough that you're
not gonna leave each other you know you
you've got sexual attraction to somebody
else it's just so yeah you know it's so
shallow and mm-hmm
it causes so much agony so much hardship
in monogamous relationships you know and
it doesn't work you said the other day
like monogamy has been proven just not
work like so many marriages end in fail
it in and failure and um you know even
if you just read the history of Western
civilization not to mention Chinese
civilization all these historical
figures in reality had open
relationships Napoleon Bonaparte and
Josephine both you know Napoleon and his
wife they both a tope relationships they
didn't use the term open relationship
just saying historically you know it's
it's also saying that monogamy in
practice was not people say it is if you
actually read the Old Testament which
very few Christians do there are
descriptions there of marriages in which
the man is sleeping with the servant and
the man is sleeping with prostitutes and
so on and all this is countenanced as
normal and King David has innumerable
wives and consorts and so on
so you know the actual basis for
monogamy even in the Bible let alone I
just say you know when you look at the
the brutal reality of what monogamy was
in practice and let me tell you
something guys though getting into it
China China China was off the hook so
the concept of monogamy and Chinese
civilization is yeah yeah so when you
operate by that definition of love where
you're actually really happy for
the other person and you want happiness
for them even if it's not with you like
even if you're not keeping them as your
pet or like you know that you want you
want them constantly all to yourself or
something like that and yeah once that
happens like once you started thinking
about in that way I just feel like
jealousy isn't there like you're not
gonna feel jealous of other people
because that there's nothing that you
know like if your bond is that strong if
you really care about each other that
much like who's gonna make me jealous
you know and I just don't I don't feel
it anymore I don't like you know I just
don't think that that's gonna happen you
know and also like once you once you get
secure in yourself and you know yourself
like you know what you have to work on
and you're honest with yourself when
you're not lying to yourself about the
issues that you have and when you
realize that you can work on them and
you can learn from your past mistakes
and improve like you won't be jealous of
other people or like when you just you
know feel comfortable in yourself in in
ways that you know that you can expand
on and like you know when I mentioned
this in the video that we've recorded a
couple weeks ago when you're focusing on
intellectual pursuits or like things you
like relationships in your life if you
have chosen anything meaningful or
anything meaningful like your job you
know like even if you're like working on
like doing something meaningful in your
career why would you be jealous of that
if you're really trying your best and if
you're really honest with yourself and
you weren't lying to yourself you
weren't lying to other people it's just
you know it's just not gonna be there so
that's ultimately what has been been my
experience okay so this is you know what
I've come to like that's the cure for
jealousy is you know all that that you
know gets wrapped up the cure for
jealousy is having a meaningful life
okay that's okay so the cure to jealousy
in relationship number one have a
meaningful long-lasting stable durable
mutually respectful relationship that
can stand the test of time that you feel
confident is going to stick you're gonna
stick around with each other for reasons
other than possession or you know
manipulation
number two realize that love isn't about
being possessive or keeping somebody as
your toy or pet and also number three
being genuinely happy for your partner
yeah just really wanting the best for
them and being happy for them yeah also
honesty so yeah I said number four
honesty is really crucial in
relationships being honest with each
other right and being honest with
yourself about how you're behaving
yeah I look you know we watched a video
some time ago where the woman was giving
advice on acne but she admitted towards
the end of the video she'd never had
acne herself she said something like
your whole life she'd only had two or
three pimples there's like she's like
that direct experience of this okay
interesting but very different from the
advice you're gonna get from someone
who's an insider someone who struggled
with acne some minestrone strove with
skin problems and you know likewise I
think on this channel it's very rare but
I've I've been giving an outsider's
perspective on jealousy jealousy is not
my problem it never has been and I
really think on a cognitive level I
don't I don't experience it you know so
yeah over the past two and a half years
like guys that does really opposites
attract somehow I ended up with one of
the most beautiful jealous and
controlling and no no I mean you know I
think you were doing all those coercive
things where it's like I'm gonna force
you to love me on my terms and yeah and
you were really doing that stuff yeah no
I I was very resilient but you know yeah
but maybe you know glorify you but like
maybe it is because of your commitment
to the truth and not and being honest
and being real you know that's what's
always attracted me to you is that
you're like really honest and you're
devoted to like you're not lying to
yourself so like part stop set this up
so so so on that on that issue exactly
what are you more afraid of masking the
audience here what are you more afraid
of being alone or being in a
relationship with someone who does
love you but is being forced to pretend
that's a wrap